# L1 -> L2 communication

This section describes the interface for interaction with zkSync from L1. It assumes that you are already familiar with the basic concepts of working with the priority queue. If you are new to this topic, you can read the conceptual introduction [here](../zksync-v2/l1-l2-interop.md). If you want to dive straight into the code, then you can read the cross-chain governance [tutorial](./cross-chain-tutorial.md).

## Structure

Besides the input parameters of the operations, all of the requests contain the last parameter - the `_queueType`. These are the important parts of the censorship resistant protocol called [priority queue](../zksync-v2/l1-l2-interop.md#priority-queue). For the testnet alpha preview, this value should be supplied as `0`, i.e. `QueueType.Deque`.

To prevent the users from requesting too many heavy operations from the operator, the user must provide the fee to be paid to the zkSync operator in ETH. Each transaction has _base cost_ in gas and the _layer 2 tip_, which is equal to the basic cost of the requested transaction subtracted from the ETH value passed with the call.

Please note that the basic costs are defined in gas and not in ETH, so the actual amount of ether that the submission of the transaction will cost depends on the transaction gas price. Generally the flow for calling any of these methods should be the following:

1. Fetch the gas price that you will use during the transaction call.
2. Get the base cost for the transaction.
3. Call the transaction, while passing the needed `value` with the call.

Please note that since transactions in `QueueType.Deque` are processed sequentially, it does not make sence to pass more `value` that the minimal required.

## Using contract interface in your project

To interact with the zkSync mailbox contract using Solidity, you need to use the zkSync contract interface. There are two main ways to get it:

- By importing it from the `@matterlabs/zksync-contracts` npm package. (preferred)
- By downloading the contracts from the [repo](https://github.com/matter-labs/v2-testnet-contracts).

The `@matterlabs/zksync-contracts` package can be installed by running the following command:

```
yarn add -D @matterlabs/zksync-contracts
```

In all of the examples below we assume that the interface is accessed via the `@matterlabs/zksync-contracts` npm package.

### Getting the base cost

::: tip requesting transaction from L1 is free for now

```
function l2TransactionBaseCost(
    uint256 _gasPrice,
    uint256 _ergsLimit,
    uint32 _calldataLength,
    QueueType _queueType
) external view returns (uint256);
```

- `_gasPrice` is a parameter that contains the transaction gas price.
- `_ergsLimit` is a parameter that contains the `ergs` limit of the transaction call. You can learn more about `ergs` and the zkSync fee system [here](../zksync-v2/fee-model).
- `_calldataLength` is a parameter that contains the length of the calldata in bytes.
- `_queueType` is a parameter required for the priority mode functionality. For the testnet, `QueueType.Deque` should always be supplied.

The view function returns the amount of ETH that is needed to be supplied by the user to cover the base cost of the transaction in ETH.

### Interface

```
function requestL2Transaction(
    address _contractAddressL2,
    bytes calldata _calldata,
    uint256 _ergsLimit,
    bytes[] calldata _factoryDeps,
    QueueType _queueType
) external payable returns (bytes32 txHash);
```

- `_contractAddressL2` is a parameter that defines the address of the contract to be called.
- `_calldata` is a parameter that contains the calldata of the transaction call. It can be encoded the same way as on Ethereum.
- `_ergsLimit` is a parameter that contains the `ergs` limit of the transaction call. You can learn more about `ergs` and the zkSync fee system [here](../zksync-v2/fee-model).
- `_factoryDeps` is a list of bytecodes. It should contain the bytecode of the contract being deployed. If the contract being deployed is a factory contract, i.e. it can deploy other contracts, the array should also contain the bytecodes of the contracts which can be deployed by it.
- `_queueType` is a parameter required for the priority mode functionality. For the testnet, `QueueType.Deque` should always be supplied.

With the method call, some amount of ETH should be supplied to cover the base cost of the transaction + layer 2 operator tip. The function returns canonical transaction hash, that can be used to track the execution of the transaction.

### Examples

#### Solidity

```sol
//SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

// Importing zkSync contract interface
import "@matterlabs/zksync-contracts/l1/contracts/interfaces/IZkSync.sol";
// Importing `Operations` contract which has the `QueueType` and `OpTree` types
import "@matterlabs/zksync-contracts/l1/zksync/Operations.sol";

contract Example {
    function callZkSync(
        // The address of the zkSync smart contract.
        // It is not recommended to hardcode it during the alpha testnet as regenesis may happen.
        address zkSyncAddress,
    ) external payable returns(bytes32 txHash) {
        IZkSync zksync = IZkSync(zkSyncAddress);

        txHash = zksync.requestL2Transaction{value: msg.value}(
            // The address of the L2 contract to call
            0xdba0833e8c4b37cecc177a665e9207962e337299,
            // Encoding the calldata for the execute
            abi.encodeWithSignature("someMethod()"),
            // Ergs limit
            1000,
            // factory dependenciew
            new bytes[](0),
            // The queue type
            Operations.QueueType.Deque
        );
    }
}
```

#### `zksync-web3`

```ts
import { Wallet, Provider, ContractFactory } zksync from "zksync-web3";
import { ethers, BigNumber } from "ethers";

const PRIVATE_KEY = "0xc8acb475bb76a4b8ee36ea4d0e516a755a17fad2e84427d5559b37b544d9ba5a";

const zkSyncProvider = new Provider("https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev");
const ethereumProvider = ethers.getDefaultProvider("goerli");
const wallet = new Wallet(PRIVATE_KEY, zkSyncProvider, ethereumProvider);

const gasPrice = await wallet.providerL1!.getGasPrice();

// The calldata can be encoded the same way as for Ethereum
const calldata = "0x...";
const ergsLimit = BigNumber.from(1000);

const txCostPrice = await wallet.getBaseCost({
    gasPrice,
    calldataLength: ethers.utils.hexDataLength(calldata),
    ergsLimit
});

console.log(`Executing the transaction will cost ${ethers.utils.formatEther(txCostPrice)} ETH`);

const executeTx = await wallet.requestExecute({
    calldata,
    ergsLimit,
    contractAddress: "0x19a5bfcbe15f98aa073b9f81b58466521479df8d",
    overrides: {
        gasPrice
    }
});

await executeTx.wait();
```
